what is ment by python?
          Python is an interpreted, object-oriented programming language similar to PERL, that has gained popularity because of its clear syntax and readability. Python is said to be relatively easy to learn and portable, meaning its statements can be interpreted in a number of operating systems, including UNIX-based systems, Mac OS, MS-DOS, OS/2, and various versions of Microsoft Windows 98. Python was created by Guido van Rossum, a former resident of the Netherlands, whose favorite comedy group at the time was Monty Python's Flying Circus. The source code is freely available and open for modification and reuse. Python has a significant number of users.
          
features of python include:   

    Easy-to-learn − Python has few keywords, simple structure, and a clearly defined syntax. This allows the student to pick up the language quickly.

    Easy-to-read − Python code is more clearly defined and visible to the eyes.

    Easy-to-maintain − Python's source code is fairly easy-to-maintain.

    A broad standard library − Python's bulk of the library is very portable and cross-platform compatible on UNIX, Windows, and Macintosh.

    Interactive Mode − Python has support for an interactive mode which allows interactive testing and debugging of snippets of code.

    Portable − Python can run on a wide variety of hardware platforms and has the same interface on all platforms.

    Extendable − You can add low-level modules to the Python interpreter. These modules enable programmers to add to or customize their tools to be more efficient.

    Databases − Python provides interfaces to all major commercial databases.

    GUI Programming − Python supports GUI applications that can be created and ported to many system calls, libraries and windows systems, such as Windows MFC, Macintosh, and the X Window system of Unix.

    Scalable − Python provides a better structure and support for large programs than shell scripting.
    Apart from the above-mentioned features, Python has a big list of good features, few are listed below −

    It supports functional and structured programming methods as well as OOP.

    It can be used as a scripting language or can be compiled to byte-code for building large applications.

    It provides very high-level dynamic data types and supports dynamic type checking.

    IT supports automatic garbage collection.

    It can be easily integrated with C, C++, COM, ActiveX, CORBA, and Java.

 Advantages of python:
1.powerful and faster
2.clear,readable syntax
3.dynamic
4.runs immediately
5.supports for object oriented programming
6. less coding require
7.modular
8.portable
9.extensive standard libraries
 
